thank you for coming to her session my
name is John Montreal
an awful developer technical support
part of what I do is I take care of the
sample code collections and the
technical note and technical Q&A
collection and of course doing that I've
plenty of opportunity to work with web
servers and further typing stuff on the
web and that's what I'm here to talk to
you about today so first of all let's
just the context what we're talking
about here today we're talking about
building your website on Mac OS 10 so
what does that mean a website has many
components and you look at your website
through web browsers so we're going to
talk in this talk about all the
different components of the website and
sorry we're going to talk about all the
parts that make up a website which
includes server software scripting
languages HTTP software and databases so
now what's when you're developing a
website what what are the things that
you do the first thing that you do is of
course you upload it to a server and
then you look at the website with your
browser now that whole activity there
there's only one thing that takes a lot
of time there and that's the network
because you have to make your pages on
your machine upload them to a server and
then view them with your browser so the
feedback loops you have going on there
it's really slow and it can take a lot
of time to develop the website that
you're working on so what I'm going to
talk to you about today is putting this
all on to one computer and getting your
computer configured so you can preview
your website and you can edit your
website so you have a really close
feedback loop when you're working on
your website and in going through that
we're going to talk about the server
software setting up that to vend HTTP
pages of course on your machine you
haven't passed to be built in and I'm
going to show you how to configure that
to do things like PHP and server side
includes and it's very easy to do the
next thing I'm going to talk about this
database software where you can get that
how you can download it and install it
there's some really easy to install
packages available on the internet that
you can use and we'll be showing you
where to get those and how to install
them the next thing we're going to talk
about scripting languages there's a
whole bunch of really good scripting
language is installed on that goes ten
can extend those languages you can add
packages and you can install extra ones
as well and we'll be showing you where
to get those then I have two special
guests coming in to talk to you about
server side java and how you can install
that on your machine and do your
prototyping locally now of course I
should point out that none of this
requires knock those ten server you can
do all of this with your client version
of Mac OS 10 all the things that I'm
showing here today you can do these on
Panther Jaguar and I think all the way
back to 10.0 as far as I know so let's
start talking about HPV server software
we have apache installed on mac OS 10
and of course on mac OS x server it's
also installed in solving a few more
options already set up for you and of
course there's some really nice
configuration software available in 10
server but we're not talking about that
today we're just talking to the client
version and how you can turn that on now
basically if you want to turn on Apache
all you do is you go into the server
settings or the sharing settings and you
turn it on using a checkbox and for
those of you who are more savvy on the
command line you can use that to turn it
on and off using the Apache control
statement shown there now I'm going to
show today how to set out three
different websites the first two I are
going to be in your site folder inside
of your home directory and the first
side i'm going to show i'm going to show
how to set this up this is the basic
kind of layout of how we access these
we're going to show how to access
websites through your local host address
and then through urls at the tilled
username and then i'm going to call one
folder site one and one folder site too
and we asked this all this through the
user configure or through the localhost
URL with the tailed username so the
first thing we need to keep in mind is
all the configuration globally on your
system is stored in HTTP configuration
file and I'm going to show you how to
set that up to turn on PHP but we don't
actually have to do anything to that
file beyond turning on different options
you can turn on PHP you can turn on mod
perl if you want and those things are
all there and you just need to turn them
on so i'll show you how to do that now
for each one of the sites we're going to
do
there's different URLs easy access those
through there's going to be tilled
username flight one till username side
two and these are all referring to
folders that are installed in your users
sites folder now the configuration for
those specific folders are stored inside
of HD access files and this is a normal
thing to do if you've developed on any
web servers and you want to prototype
use use the HD access files and you just
place this on your servers that your
various options like turning on server
side includes for example or turning on
PHP inside of plain HTML files instead
of requiring people to type PHP at the
end of their URLs which some people
might not be very comfortable with so
the first thing we're going to go this
is how you turn on Itachi and how you
set it up so it will actually look at HT
access files in your in your sights
folder now by default on the client
install of Mac OS 10 HD access files are
ignored so this is the first thing
you'll have to do and all you do is you
add in for your username let's say
you're logged in on this machine that
i'm going to show you on your logged in
its Apple so we'd call it apple conte
and we provide these options inside of
there these are all options that you can
look up in any attached configuration
mount module and on the dmg I provided
all these files for your reference so
you don't have to copy them down now
this this basically turns on HT access
files once you install these commands in
your users configuration file you go and
just restart apache using either the
checkbox or you can do it by using the
pseudo apache control command now for
site 1 i'm going to show how to turn on
server side includes for HTML files what
those are is basically there are special
kind of HTML comment and you put some
contents in there and what that'll do is
it'll wreck when when the server is
ending out the file to various web
browsers it'll look on the disk to find
a file by that name and it will replace
the comment with the contents of that
file a lot of people use this for
certain standard headers and footers on
their website so this is kind of an
interesting option to turn on because
then you can have standard headers and
footers for all your pages of course
now in flight too we're just going to
turn on we're gonna use these commands
to turn on PHP processing inside of
place it's plain HTML files so now you
instead having dot PHP at the end of all
your files you have dot HTML and for
some people they well they can't really
tell how you're automating your sites
and because it's you're deceiving HTML
as far as the world is concerned behind
the scenes of course you can have PHP
running do processing your pages so
here's a small demo I'm going to switch
over to demo machine to now first of all
here's the htp configuration file
without me using and inside it there
I've enabled the PHP commands so here's
the first line and all I did was I took
the comment symbol off the front of that
and here's the site note let's go to the
top
so searching from the top there's the
load module statement we uncommented
that and then we uncommented that and
that turns on PHP on your system and you
can use PHP and all your files and after
that you probably don't want to do any
more changes to HT the configuration
file now in here this is my apple user
configuration file and that's located
inside of well you can see it up here
etcetera HTTP users alpha configuration
well this is the important statement
here is just allowed for hdb config HT
access files to be used and that governs
the access over you provide an absolute
pathname up here the users apple sites
directory so everything in the apple
sites directory now if there is an
htaccess file in the folder it'll be
used to determine the options for that
folder and all the subfolders of that
folder so these are these are standard
Apache configuration things so I have
site one set up here so we can say
localhost
site one so that's my that's my site
with server side includes turned on
inside of it and if we look on the disk
here as far as sunni in the Finder
windows I could try doona 0 hold on yeah
give me a second to do though
it's on turn on to her thank you thank
you okay I guess when I'm in front of
people are nervous I'm not looking at
this thing in front like ice but ok so
anybody here site one and here's my HTML
file and of course here's my might
include file now inside there it's a
control option + ok so here we have the
this is the server side include
statement there and basically what
happens when the file gets read in
inside the browser I can find Safari now
ok so if we view the source here on the
on this page we can see that that
comment once you're placed with this
this text here which is inside of my
include file and that's where it was
replaced so that server side includes
inside of flight number one and I
brought up the hell for me it knew I
needed help ok now inside of sight too
I'm doing PHP processing inside of an
HTML file if I make this more obvious so
here's all the content that you can see
inside of this page and this is all
generated from from the PHP those of you
familiar with PHP will be familiar this
is the the PHP information can and i'll
show you the contents of that file as
well i can get back to the finder so i'm
not actually using the header include
file there but
here we go
so
so here's all the PHP that's being
generated here that's PHP canal and of
course this is all the contents being
generated there so that's my little demo
it's not that exciting in if you're
researching some flashy web stuff going
on then then well that's not there the
louis leads back to the next slide so
that's that's how to do those are simple
websites with you know you have to use
the problem you might notice there is
you have to use tilled user name and/or
tilled username then the name of the
directory and now that might not
completely reflect what you're doing on
the web because like usually you have
something like my site com and you want
to mirror that kind of thing so what you
want to do then is set up a local
virtual host and what that does locally
on your machine is still using the word
local host to refer to your site you set
up an extra name to refer to your own
computer so what we do here on the first
first little flexion we see up there
what I've done is I've added to name the
alien skin for local host on my machine
and we're calling it a local name I
think in my demo and I'm calling it
local site but and then it's been in the
next part we add this this virtual host
section into our configuration file now
the advantage of this is if you're doing
debugging and shuffling your site then
of course you get server-side logs
generated for your virtual host and you
can have as many of these set up on your
machine if you want so you can set up
localhost local site local this local
that for as many different site secured
building and you'll get a server side
access log you'll get a server-side
error log you can set up a document root
for that directory which means if you
understand a little more about the
server side include thing you can do
include virtual rather than include file
which goes to the document root looking
for documents rather than relative to
the source file the other thing you can
set up also is a scripts directory to on
a per host basis but now I have a demo
of this but I like to show you and I'm
going to build this on the computer here
so
the first thing we bring out here's our
configuration file from my Apple user
and I'm going to add in the virtual host
parts here so here's the local site is
the name that I've set up and inside of
here's my hosts file now I'll make that
bigger soon so inside my this is my host
database once you eat this once you edit
this file you don't have to restart your
system or anything so I'm adding in here
local host I'm adding in another psych
letter name alias for that IP address
called local site and then on setting up
a virtual host here and the document
root is going to be site three inside of
my tights folder for my user and i'm
going to log errors and accesses in
these two files here so once i saved
these then we'll be able to go into we
need to go into the terminal so it reads
in our new configuration and i'm doing
the apache control graceful method to
restart the server and then i can go
into and all right sorry you can see the
site name that i'm tucking in there and
and ok there's my exciting demo but
what's going on in the background here
is this is reading in the configuration
for that site and I've set up site three
here and that just has a server-side
include and I've done the normal thing
here now HD access files are in all
these folders and we can open those up
and inside of the terminal here I'll go
in there and open one up to see Casilla
so here's our htaccess file right here
and there's basically the commands that
I have inside of that server side
includes parsing turned on so so that's
a very simple way to set up a virtual
host inside of your machine and that
with that way you can basically emulate
the same functionality as as you have on
most websites two and install whatever
software you need on this now for more
information about Apache configuration
options and stuff there's a really good
book up by o'reilly and there's also the
apache web site here that you can go to
and i also mentioned our gun ports
because if you're interested in selling
other server software other than apache
you can go there and they have a whole
bunch of different different servers
that you can install on your machine
that are kind of interesting to play
with or if you have special servers that
you're developing for then that's a good
place to go and get the server software
that you can install so in our next
session i'm just going to go over the
different databases you can install on
your system and that and i'm not really
going to do any demos here because well
databases that these unless there's
really interesting than my lasting love
but so what we have until what you can
stall i'm going to go over mysql 4mm
four-point-oh to postgresql and berkeley
DB and of course you know there's some
others that we have available on this
off on the platform as well these are
the 3 1 so that there's other ones like
oracle and sybase that you can you can
get as well so i'm going to talk about
mysql where you can get it there's a
really good double clickable installed
system style package that you can
install from their site you can go to
their MySQL dot org it's fast popular
database to thin almost every web server
seems to have it these days I think a
lot of people are using it so that's a
very popular package that you might want
to look out postgresql this is the more
advanced support some more advanced SQL
queries that you can use and it's more
interesting if you want to do some
advanced programming now they do have an
install
our website at post grade SQL done org
but there's also a really easy to use
install on Darwin ports that you might
want to install instead because that's
all pre-configured and there's no house
while enjoying and it's very easy to do
if you do install the one Darwin ports
don't kourt's have variants so if you
wanted to run as a server on your
machine instead of just installing the
libraries and software that is not
launched by default when you restart
your computer then you'd want to use the
plus server option that I've shown there
and the Darwin port since all command
Berkeley database I've seen some people
use this with pearl some people do that
and i've included reference their
website here it's also available as an
insult package from Darwin ports and
that's why provided reference there now
there's some high-level SQL tools that
we can use and there's the cocoa MySQL
which is really easy to do and that's
kind of looking at mysql databases it's
a high-level viewer engine lets you do
SQL queries and lets you look at ql data
and that sort of thing the second one is
not guess ql and that's kind of a
generic database product that you can
use for viewing databases and you can
down that load that from runtime labs
what that provides is a UI on one end
and then you have various drivers for
different databases that hook up in
between there that you can use and then
of course there's your database running
on your other machine PHP my admin is
another tool that runs in PHP of course
and you know I beyond the session thing
I wanting to do a demo but I do have a
demo of this so I'm just going to give a
quick demo of using PHP my admin now
so if you go to their website and that's
not done here we can we can download
there's a gzip package and I'll just
download that and hopefully it'll appear
on my desktop so basically the demo here
is I'm just going to download the home
I'm gonna have to cancel this demo I'm
very sorry what happened was originally
I had my SQL installed on this machine
and I forgot to do that just before our
session and it was really neat because
what I do is I download PHP minds man
just drop it into the site and then it
would work but we'll just move on to the
next slide I'm afraid sorry I just got
here before and I completely forgot to
install that last one so anyway here's
the database software references and we
have mysql and their various website and
also you might want to look at darwin
ports because if you're using things
like python or pearl or PHP there's a
whole bunch of plug-in modules for
various different database accessing
drivers that you can get some Darwin
ports of course the pearl ones you can
get from C done now we're going to talk
about scripting languages next and
there's a whole bunch that are installed
on a necklace 10 by default you get PHP
Perl Python and Ruby and there's all the
old UNIX favorites to command my tools
and whatnot but you don't really use
those for scripting web pages but you
might use them building web pages of
course now I'm gonna start by talking
about PHP cuz I think that's one of the
most popular ones for web developers now
of course you need to turn that on and
here's the commands that you can use I I
showed how to turn it on before but
these are the these are basically two
lines that you uncomment to turn on PHP
for running in your programs and all you
have to do is take out the sharp symbols
at the beginning of these lines and
restart your apache and that'll get it
going now for PHP configuration the
default configuration I found I did I
didn't really like it so these are the
two things that really bothered me about
the deep
a configuration for PHP and you can of
course go and change those we provide
all the default in a file that you can
make a duplicate up using the command
that I've shown here and what you'd want
to do like for example the magic quotes
thing that kind of caught me by surprise
because what it does is in the GPC
stands forget post cookies and in all to
get those cookie data it fits on by
default and puts little backslash it's
in front of all your quotes and things
like that so you might want to turn that
off the other one if you want to upload
files larger than two megabytes or have
post data which is tied to the upload
the maximum file size greater than 2 or
8 megabytes and you might want to adjust
those parameters so you'd go in and make
a duplicate copy of the default
initialization Belliard variables for
PHP that we provide and then go fiddle
with the preferences so so their way you
like them pearl isn't solved 528 one we
have thrill 5.1 installed on counter
right now and if you want to upgrade
that you can go to Darwin ports and of
course you can download that that
installs in a separate directory and it
doesn't overwrite the system's pearl
that's a good thing and there's live
stock me out here if you want to know
about weight we could go about aligning
that now of course once you install
pearl and you have latest Perl installed
you can go and use all to see pen
modules and the the DB database
accessing modules and database accessing
drivers for various databases and stuff
like that mod perl is available and you
can turn it on in the same way that you
can install turn on ph the PHP instead
of a sheepish ashley configuration file
i'm not really going to go over that but
if you know about mod perl then then you
know how to turn on python is installed
and you can get the whole bunch of
python updates and modules from opened
darlin and that's a really good place to
look for that of course here's the
Python website I was really impressed by
how many different python modules were
available on the Darwin port site so you
might want to take a look at that and
it's kind of a neat language in a ruby
it's more of an object-oriented version
of scripting languages for people that
like object-oriented programming might
be something really worthwhile for you
to investigate if you do a lot of
object-oriented stuff
and here's their website you can upgrade
Ruby and a whole bunch of Ruby modules
for accessing databases and whatnot on
the Darwin ports website so so that's
the scripting languages session we
talked about Darwin ports and that's a
really good place to go one of my
favorite sites if you haven't noticed
and there's lots I on scripting modules
there other languages you can get if
you'd like to if you're building your
webpages dynamically you're using
different languages to create them
there's a whole bunch about the
languages you can go get there and if
you're if you're writing C programs that
do image manipulation or automatic image
generation for like raster titles or
something like that there's a whole
bunch of different libraries you can get
there as well so here's some information
about different places you can go to
find information about these different
scripting languages of course there's
the man pages and the product pages and
stuff like that built into the system
swamp but the last section we're going
to talk about server side java
implementations available on oculus town
and the first section is java servlets
now for those who don't know java
servlets our little java programs that
run inside of apache and you can
actually run them as a server and side
of apache as well and now we're going to
show you some of the tools that we have
available on knockos 10 for developing
servlets you can develop them inside of
Xcode and we have Ted juice of a cure to
give us a demo what they are and let you
see how they work I'm not sure if they
can hear you can that people can hear me
so let's actually go to I guess yeah
that's the right machine I'm so the only
thing I've really done for this machine
is I've downloaded and installed the
application server preview you can get
that connect i'll calm it says it's a
preview but it actually has final
candidate implementations or releases of
jboss tomcat and x doclet it also
includes templates for xcode for doing
see servlets enterprise javabeans and
enterprise applications now what I'm
going to show you here I've actually got
the server up and running where is that
most thing there it is don't worry about
the texts I don't need to zoom it in but
this is just a log file that comes up
that when you start up jboss this is
what generates the only thing I've done
is if after you install it you can
actually start it up by going into see
being into library jboss three dot to
bin and then there's a run da sh script
that you can run and then you're up and
running with it so the next step is
let's go and actually launch Xcode now
servlets yes it's Java and stuff like
that but it's not complicated even if
you really don't know Java to do a cert
to do a very simple product servlet very
easy one of the key things is even
though i'm doing the development for
this on mac OS 10 you can deploy this to
any other server that does servlets any
other server that has tom cat or you
know the j box with to tomcat you know
windows linux solaris of course xserve
and so i'll just put this in my home and
let me put it and let's call it hello
wdc SF so it creates a project this is
actually an ant build script that uses
so if you want to say you're working on
this project with other people and
they're using some other tools say like
NetBeans or eclipse or something like
that it's all just ants so it's all
cross plateau you know you can use it on
pretty much any machine so I'm going to
go ahead do a build but actually before
we do anything let me just go into the
source and make a change here and the
change that I'm doing is actually just
let's see that's the title
and then this is the content the the
template comes up with hello world and
let me see if I can zoom in on this a
little bit then you get the text and let
me set it to you're like 18 all right
there we go so let's go down to here and
the do get this is when you send a get
command to the server this is that where
it comes in it actually it sends in the
request the response and essentially
everything that you're printing out is
in these quotes if you have just a
static page or something you're
generating or something like that you
can pretty much just fill in these
quotes but that's not what several it is
it's supposed to be dynamic and all that
but what you can do is you can take this
request data and then based on that we
reply with whatever you want so I'm
going to go ahead and change this to
WWDC and up that's a habit and let's go
ahead do the build now one thing about
this ant project is it actually does
both the build and then also installed
it so you notice that the terminal over
there just kind of kicked up what that
was is the ant build actually copied in
to the directory for you jboss and are
actually Tomcat in this case because
servlet notice it was there loaded it up
and you're up and running so the next
step is of course to test it you could
always go to another machine but you
know you're on that machine and actually
I changed it a little bit from what I
had before so the first part of the URL
is the actually the name of the project
FF and then the second half of that URL
the servant hello world actually comes
from
inside the sources there's the X doclet
comments right here the surveillance
hello world with that you can configure
exactly where where you want it to be
accessed from on the server and stuff
like that so if you have multiple of
course servlets you don't want them all
to be have a collision space on them so
any luck I should get hello WWDC whoo so
of course your service would be much
more dynamic and stuff like that so but
you know the entries level for servlets
is very low on mac OS 10 and it makes it
very easy to develop and then deploy to
any other platform so thank you very
much so thank you ted and ted's are are
one of our engineers and apple developer
technical support the texture of java
now so next section we're going to talk
about j2ee application development on
Mac OS 10 using web objects Lebanon
juice is Apple's rapid application
development technology or developing
websites and it's for building j2ee
applications we're going to show you how
to use live objects most people think of
web objects in terms of well you have to
have a little object server but we're
going to talk about it in terms of well
we're going to just use web objects for
developing j2ee applications for
placement on any server in the world
doesn't have to be a weblogic server and
that's kind of interesting in itself now
to do that I have duralee it was a
senior engineer from the weblogic steam
has come to do give us a talk and give
us a demonstration of how to do that so
here's Earl all right thank you John so
how many people out there know what
llevaba kiss or heard of web objects
great how many have worked with j2ee
technologies before ejb servlets it's
all right sir ok great so I'm going to
tell you about is how web barbican j2ee
kind of integrate well together so what
is web objects it's a java application
server that Apple build it's a
deployment end of development and
deployment environment
so we think it's probably one of the
best ways to build large enterprise
level applications that have a lot of
enterprise needs and some of the
vertical customers or solutions that
people have deployed or have been for
online banking institutions travel
agencies elearning solutions we use it
for our itunes music store r dot mac
services or online store apple store
also so there are many other solutions
that are out there but that just gives
you an idea of what people have done
with it so at its core what is web
objects about I think the power of web
objects is in our core framework and we
have framework if you've heard of eos
that allow you to model the data in your
database or other data sources and
connect to that easily and map back to
your application then we have a bunch of
framework that allow you to publish your
data either to HTML or maybe a desktop
application a Java desktop application
or maybe build a web service and so on
top of those frameworks we've we have a
bunch of tools and assistance that help
you configure your UI and build your
applications rapidly so if you're
familiar with web objects a lot of
people have done what we call a dot lua
deployment or the but the application
bundles are bumbled in Louis we also
have a different option for deploying in
j2ee containers and that's the dot waar
bundle and thought war bundles are or
web archives are a j2ee specified way of
deploying a application bundle to any
j2ee compliance server so if you have
something like jboss you can take a wire
bundle and deploy it into that and also
take that same war bundle and deploy
into websphere or weblogic or whatever
j2ee container that you'd like so let's
dig a little deeper into the
functionality and within web objects so
the first thing you want to do is get
some connectivity to your data the
standard way in Java is to go through
jdbc the JDBC interfaces so if somebody
writes a JDBC driver then we can connect
to that kind of data source so today
we've talked about MySQL or post gray
there are jdbc drivers for that there
are a lot of commercial drivers for like
Oracle sybase and you name it so so if
you're connecting in relational
databases we can support that and in the
same token if you're connecting to
directory services Java has a standard
interface for that so the jndi interface
is the way to go and things like
openldap and I planet we can support
that kind of connectivity as well as
they have a J connector for that so when
you're trying to map your data from your
database you we do this thing called
object relational mapping so we're
mapping the actual tables and rose in
your database to actual objects so that
your your app can access that and we
have a needle modeler tool that I'll
show you a little bit later and how to
use that tool so the next thing after
you've kind of modeled your data is
you'd want to figure out what mediums or
where you'd want to publish that too
when you hear the name web object you
think okay so that's a web client so we
obviously then HTML as one option but
some other things I want to make you
aware of is that if you want a richer
experience we also help you build Java
clients for the desktop these are kind
of three tiered applications so they
would be a Java client which would talk
to a web object server which would then
talk to your database and then we also
support web services so web services are
a very popular buzzword lately and so if
you hear Microsoft is pushing dotnet
services and basically they're just
sending out substructures if people are
familiar with soap
so web service is kind of encompass soap
xmlrpc and wsdl i'm not going to go into
all those acronyms but we have
assistants that allow you to take your
data with our money your model your
model data and actually configure its
service so that you can interconnect
with other computers or applications
that can talk web services also so after
we've done that I wanted to tell you
about our rapid development tool and
these assistants really allow you to
rapidly prototype your applications
within minutes so I'm later in a demo
I'm going to show you then within five
minutes I can build an application
without writing even a drop of code and
customize the UI and get up and running
so it's definitely a powerful tool to
use in our in our web RX distribution so
getting started what do i need to get on
my disk to download on my laptop today
and get running well first you're going
to want to pick a nice ide to work in
we're Apple so we encourage you to use
xcode it's a great environment for
building java applications and web
objects applications so definitely check
that out if you are more partial to an
open source solution grabbed eclipse and
download that and then we have a couple
of open source projects that support web
barwick development so if you have heard
of whoa lips and blow project we
download those and stall them then you
can use eclipse to build web
applications the next thing you want to
do if you don't have web box on your
disk is to go to our website wwlp.com
web objects and download a free trial
version of web objects they're
full-featured development tools there
the only thing you need is a 30 day free
free trial license so that will get you
up and running and you can play with or
everything that we got so if you're
interested in the dot war bumbling that
I was talking about and deploying that
way we have I would suggest that you
download the application
server update or preview that Ted was
demoing earlier and that has tom cat and
Jay box so those are all pre configured
to run on mac OS 10 so it saves you from
downloading the binaries from j botha
org or tomcat org and getting all that
installed correctly and configured
correctly okay so without i would like
to jump into a demo and if we can go to
laptop laptop over here okay so this is
kind of like the end product of what i'm
going to show you and what you can see
is that this is a very full featured app
i can add records over here i can edit
records i can delete them and i can sort
them and hopefully my session has timed
out yet so it's still interactive so
this is what we're going to try to get
to you by the end of my demo one other
thing i want to point out to you just
because it looks cooler is a more fuller
model that I've dealt with my model
hablar okay there we go let's resize on
so if you look at this and let me put
this in a diagram view which is much
more interesting to look at this is some
data in my database that I've modeled
and what I'm what I've just selected
here is the agent entity which
represents a table in your database and
say this first name attribute what we
call attribute it really represents a
column in your database and if you if we
do get info we can kind of get a little
bit more information like the actual
column name is first underscore name so
I want to do build a simpler model for
you oh one other thing I'll point out is
that you also can see the relationship
between the various tables of foreign
keys and the primary keys and how they
relate with each other okay so let's
build a simpler model and reverse
engineer this from our database and the
first thing we want to do is
I'm going to connect to a JDBC data
source and connect to it with a jdbc
connection URL hopefully that paste it
in correctly
there we go the next thing it's going to
do is ask me all kinds of questions
about do I want to be great about
relationships or stored procedures and
or other things and we'll just take some
very simple option to just say we're
going to ask about primary keys
investigating it's asking me is okay
what tables do I want to work with and I
just for the simplicity simplicity of
this demo I just want to pick one table
and I'll pick listing address let's
finish so here is our model and it's
really simple I'm like I point out to
you before there is here's our table and
there are columns and one other thing
I'll just point out to you say I want to
change something or if I was just
modeling this on my own and I didn't
have any database or am the tables set
up in database we can generate SQL for
actually creating those tables and those
relationships the primary keys foreign
key I'm relation bindings and stuff like
that and you can execute that script or
save it off as a script okay so let's
just save that model and let's put then
on our desktop
okay so what about to show you next is
how in xcode we'd build a direct web
application and what that does is allow
me to rapidly prototype a web
application and as you can see we have a
bunch of other templates for web objects
so if you're building a Java client or
if you were building a web service
application and there are variations
thereof but I'm going to do a web
application today and let's just call
this test and put on the desktop so we
want to eventually deploy this as a war
bundle so I'm going to select that
option this is a standalone one where it
beds all the jars and next so resources
that will need and this is where we'd
put our little trial license in if I'd
wanted to add web sources support either
vending web services or consuming web
services i would add select these
options and what this is asking me for
is whether i want to use jdbc type of
access or if I need Jan di types of
access and I will take this to standard
frameworks that's added there and let me
just add our little listing model now
what this pain is asking me is ok what
kind of default template look that I
want to start off with it I'm not forced
to stick with this but I will be
configuring this a little bit later so
let's just go with the neutral look and
then build and run our project
so there's not a real a lot of Java code
in this project as you can see there's
like three java files and there are a
few components in here and then there's
our model file that we were just talking
about and this will launch and pull up
my web browser here and this is my
application without any configuration
and as you can see I can it's fully
functional out of the box so if I want
to query on it there's no problem so I
can sort right away and I can add and do
other kinds of operations on the table
so as you can notice it's some of its
not so pretty I don't like this
apartment number of string that is it's
previewing for me here and now i'm
particularly like how its presenting the
zip code string or something like that
so i'm going to show you how you can
customize this without even have to
recompile your code and what i would do
is i would select the assistant and log
in and then i want to select this
customized link what that's going to do
is it's going to bring up an assistant
it's any applet that will help me
configure some of the properties with it
an application oops so okay here's our
assistant hopefully it's large enough so
everybody see but what I want to do is I
want to change this apartment num
attribute name to something that's more
displayable and I'll just call this
apartment and just to see how cool this
is let me just pull this up so as you
can see it's still apartment number
right here for that the old way of
displaying it but if I hit the Update
button right here it will dynamically
update that and apartment now shows in
my application I can do the same thing
with dude for zip code again let's just
call this postal code
and we can update that and boom it
immediately updates so we can save our
changes and let me just show you how to
pull the web the deployment in jboss
works ok so we'd put a good Xcode and
they just point out one thing in our
targets over here and let that now I can
tell Xcode where to drop my my wire
bundle by configuring this one property
here which is the servlet underscore web
apps directory and its target to put
into isn't into the che box deployment
directory in flash jboss 32 deploy so I
just want to point that out to you if
you had installed your application
server in a different location that
would be good to know ok so let's let's
build our and deploy our server and once
it finishes building it'll automatically
put it into the flash library jboss
folder and while building and stuff i
want i'll just show you one other thing
that you can way you can tell that the
JBoss server is up it without having to
look at your terminal or something like
that is if you poor if you go to
localhost 8080 on the adat port and you
hit that you'll get this welcoming page
so it's a quick way that I use all the
time just to check if my servers up so
let's try connecting to our application
i'm pretty sure it's deployed and let's
just try so it's at test web objects
test out well and here's our application
we can log in and we can query on it and
sees here our customizations and as you
notice we're on the 8080 port so I just
hopefully it was clear to you that when
i was in xcode now I was building stuff
that that was actually the development
environment but when you deploy you'll
have a different URL here and you'll see
the 8080 colon or whatever you map your
your JBoss server to so hopefully that
clarifies dis on how easy it is to build
a web Alex application and how it's
almost virtually crowed free when you're
trying to prototype your application for
the web so back to you John so thank you
great thank you very much Daryl here's
some reference materials for doing
server side java applications now ok i'm
going to sum up and what we talked about
today is basically doing all your web
development locally on your computer
like for example you're all carrying
around laptops so let's say you wanted
to do website development testing
prototyping on your laptop without being
connected to the Internet here's this is
what we've been talking about today we
talked about server software how to set
up apache so you can do local serving
off of pages and so you can emulate all
the server side options that you'd have
on a regular server on the internet such
a server side includes doing PHP and
virtual hosting we talked about
databases where you can go to get them
to install them where you can find them
on the web some installation options for
post gray for example and where you can
get modules to access them from various
scripting languages and we talked about
some scripting languages that are
pre-installed on Mac os10 and how you
can turn on PHP and another sort of
thing we also had two demonstrations of
different options for doing java java
server side java on mac OS 10 and these
were all running locally on a local
machine so you can do your development
testing prototyping all on the same
machine and of course we had shrivel its
which is the simple ones and we have
j2ee application development web
which of course as you notice that was
our flashy graphics demo so now in the
end here's the reference library
information we have a connected apple
com dmg that you can download at the end
of the date say and I of course dorman
ports is a good place to go look for
information and downloads for software
that you can install to do web
development and prototyping on your
machine